Clash of the Titans: Today we will compare the flagship products of India's two
largest private insurance companies,
HDFC and ICICI LBRD,
Optima Secure and
Elevate, and
see which product is better in the market.
[Music]
So let's make this video a little more interesting.  On
one side let's take HDFC Optima
Secure and on the other side let's take ICICI LB
Elevate. Let's compare these two in five
rounds. The
first round will be product comparison, the
second round will be customer service
comparison, the third round will be claims
experience comparison, the fourth round will be
premiums about which everyone is
very enthusiastic,
how much are the premiums of these two, that comparison and
finally I will give my verdict that
which of these two products is
better, more good.
So my name is Ayush Dubey.  I'm the co-founder
of Ofcourse.org and head the
research department there.
If I talk about Beshaq, Beshaq is India's only
independent unbiased research advisory
platform.  Where we
compare and rate 100s and 100s of pluses.
And we consider more than 100 parameters to make these ratings.
Right?  So without further delay,
let's start with round one.  So let's
start with round one.  Round one is
our product benefits.  Let's quickly run
through all the core benefits.
Apart from core benefits as
I told you earlier.  We
consider 100s and 100s of parameters.
We highly recommend that you visit our decoder.
You can also see everything in detail.
And apart from this, you can also book a free consultation with one of our renowned
financial experts.
Where you can
schedule a call with them and after doing your need
based analysis, they will explain to you the best plan for you.
So let's quickly run through
all our core benefits.  Inpatient
hospitalization is the same in both.
Elevate at ICI Lobert has a single private room.
If you want to have no room net limit then
you will have to pay some extra add on.  According to
me, this means
you may have to pay a little extra premium.
You will have to keep in mind
that you will also have to add an add-on.  So keep in
mind that you will have to install add-ons.
Pre-post hospitalization
is almost the same in both.  Just some 90 days
post hospitalization is there in ICI number
and 60 days post hospitalization is there
in Optimus Secure.  More than 30 days does
not make much difference if
you ask me, so you can select any of the two.
So much means it is
not a big deal.
Talking about day treatments, both
are covered.  There is no limit.  All types of day
care treatments are covered.  Domiciliary
treatment is covered in both.  Up to some in
short is covered.  Talk about organ donors.
Organ donors are also covered in both.
Up to 50 lakh rupees are covered.  The same modern
treatments are covered in both.  Up to
some in short.  What does it mean if you
ask me, all the core benefits are
almost the same in both.  It
means nothing to you to worry about.
If we talk about refill benefits, it is
almost the same in both.  Refill benefit.  There are no
differences.  It's just that
you need to install an add-on to Optima Secure to get unlimited number of times of restoration.  You will have to
pay a little extra premium.
If you do not select add-ons, it will
remain a once-in-a-lifetime policy.  Otherwise
you can do unlimited number of times by selecting an add on to
Optimize Secure.
Elevate doesn't require add-ons.
Unlimited number of times is available as an
inbuilt feature.  In both,
restoration is obtained from the second claim through the subsequent claim.
Partial exhaustion of sum insured pay
is also available in both the products.  And whether it is a
related or unrelated illness, you can
use it for either of them.
If we talk about non-medical expenses and
consumables in Opt Secure and Elevate, it
is available in both.  The only difference is that
you will have to pay some extra premium in Elevate.
As an add on is available.
This is an inbuilt feature in Optima Secure.  If we
talk about limits and exclusions.
If we talk about limits, no
disease wise sub limits are available in both the products.
If we talk about waiting periods.
Waiting period means
that whatever insurance you buy.
This is the standard across the entire health
insurance industry.  You have a cooling
off period.
You cannot claim everything from day one of purchasing the policy.  There are
three types of waiting
periods.  There is an initial waiting period of
30 days for both products.  There is
a waiting period for specific treatments.
All insurance companies
define a list of treatments in their policy wordings.  To
claim this, you have to
wait for some number of months.
Right?  Different companies maintain different types of
lists.  To check this list,
you can go to the policy wording.
You can also use our website.
You can also check that thing by visiting our website.
If I talk about Optima Secure, it is available for 24 months.
If I
talk about Elevate, it is also available for 24 months.
However, in Elevate
you can use an add-on by paying some extra premium.  You
can add it
to your policy so that you can reduce this 24 months to 12
months.  And apart from this there are a few
other types of listed
treatments.  For example, there are many types of treatments like diabetes, blood
pressure, heart conditions, etc., there are
such diseases
which you can reduce for up to 90 days.
Not even for 12 months, but for 90 days.
You can do it in 21 days.  For this also you will have to
pay extra premium.  You will have to add
an add-on at the time you are
purchasing the policy.  The third type of waiting
period is the waiting period for pre-existing disease.
Pre-existing disease.   This
means that you already have such a disease
at the time you are purchasing the policy.  And the
insurance company has declared him as a PED and
issued the policy to you.
You can claim its coverage only after a certain number of months.  And the insurance
company will approve the claim for you.  This is
called the waiting period of PED.
If I talk about Optimus Secure,
it is 36 months.  If I talk about Elevate of ICICI Lombard, then it is
also 36
months.  But
you
can pay some extra premium by adding an add-on to it.  And you
can reduce this 36 months up to 12
months.  You can reduce the
waiting period for these PEDs
and claim them only
after 12 months.  So, based on
all the parameters that we have discussed,
if we talk about the rating of product benefits, then
we have rated Optima Secure 5 out of 5 and
if we talk about ICICI LB's Elevate, then
we have rated it 3.94 out of
5.  So Optima Secure is basically one
of the best rated plans in terms of
product benefits.  Very good we have
rated it.  There are very few
plans whose rating comes out to be 515.
Star ratings on the Edge, of course.
So the winner of round one is basically
Optima Secure in terms of product
business.  Let's quickly move on to round two.
Round two is our customer service.
If we talk about customer service,
again I am telling you.
Here I am comparing only the important parameters.
We have
considered multiple parameters for rating.
To start with, first of all
if we talk about toll free.  So
we're basically over here at course.  We
randomly call toll free numbers
of insurance companies.  Just to see what their
experience is like.
How well their agents are able to
explain the product.  We
call toll free at different times,
we call on Sundays at 8:00 pm to
see if anyone is available.
So if we talk about the response time of
toll free, then we have rated Optima Secure
HDFC ao Optima Secure as average.
This is their average response time.  At
the same time, if we talk about Elevate,
ICICI Romb, then they are also average.
If we talk about Twitter, we are
doing a lot of analysis on Twitter also.
We see whether those people are
getting responses on Twitter after 8-9:00 pm
or not.
What is their first response time?  Are they responding to human
responses or bot responses?
We have all these multiple parameters
which we are rating.  If we
talk about response time on Twitter
for ICICI LB and HDFC Organo.  HDFC Organo
has an average response time.
If we talk about ICICI, it is a bit slow
comparatively.  Right?  If we talk about the percentage of
complaints that insurance
companies have received after sales.
How many complaints have these people received after purchasing the policy
?  So both are very good.
01% of HDFCO and ICICI LBD.  So it
cannot be less than this.  If
you ask me, both mean very
very good.  So here we have
discussed only three parameters which are the most
important parameters.  Apart from this, we have
considered more than 50 parameters
to actually get the customer service rating.  Considering all these parameters,
our cumulative rating for
customer service has been arrived at, in which we have given 515 to HDFCO
and 3.13 to ICICI LB out
of five.  There is a significant difference
between these two.  HDFC Ago is the clear winner by
giving Rs 515.  The winner of round two is HDFC Ergo in
terms of customer service.  So next we
talk about claims experience.  Let's
start round three.  Any
customer is buying a policy so that
their claim gets settled.
This is the most important round, in my view at least
claims experience is the most
important.  In this also we have
considered multiple parameters to
actually rate.  Let us discuss some
important parameters that we have
put in our decoder.  Let's
compare both and
see which one is better.  The
first parameter if we talk about is the claim
settlement ratio.
This basically means the
total number of claims
received by the insurance company.  How many
claims have they settled out of that?  If we
talk about HDFCO, it is 93.51%.
If we talk about ICICI Lombard, it is 80.98%.
HDFCO is slightly better in this if we
talk about claims incurred ratio.  Do it.  Claims
Earned Ratio basically means
that if the insurance company earned a premium of ₹100, then
how much amount has it paid out as
claim.  Right?  If
he has paid a premium of ₹100, then if
he has paid a claim of ₹80, then his
claim is an incurred claims ratio of 80%.  Basically, it
tells the profitability
of the insurance company.  In the peacock and lace industry, generally an
ICR between 60% and 80% is
considered a good descent.  Right?
If we talk about HDFCO and ICICI LBAD,
HDFCO has 84.85%.  ICICI Lombard holds
82.24%.  If you ask me personally, neither of them is
very good.
Actually, because the
claim incurred ratio of both these people is above 80%, there are very
high chances that both the insurance companies are going to
increase the premium of their product.
Right?  Because the amount of claims these people are making
, the amount of premium they are collecting
versus the amount of claims they are making is
quite high.  It is a little on the higher side.
So there are high chances that
these people can increase the premium in future.  So
you should take care of this.  Next, if we
talk about the percentage of complaints received
on overall claims, both are almost similar.
15% is there, 14% is there. 15% is of HDFCO.  14%
is owned by ICICI Ltd.  Both are almost the same.
If we talk about the percentage of claims settled in less than
30 days.  Basically
talk about speed of settling claims.  Just like we
talked about claim settlement ratio,
this is also a parameter which
we definitely give a lot of value to.
We remove it from public disclosure.
All this data is publicly
available on the insurance company's website.
If we talk about it, HDFC Ago has
96.63%.  99.94% in ICICI LBAD means
close to 100%.  Whatever claims are coming
to ICICI LBA, they are selling almost all the claims
within these 30 days.  If we
talk about claims reputation ratio.
Claims Reputation Ratio is basically
Rejection Ratio.  How many claims is the
insurance company rejecting?
What was the total number of claims received?  Out of that,
how many claims did they
reject?  If we talk about it, then
HDFC Ago has 1.59%.  And
if we talk about ICICI LB, it is 8.28%.
ICICI LB's rejection ratio is much higher than the industry average. Actually, this is something which you should always like to know and
think about that
ICIC LB is rejecting a lot of
claims as compared to HDFCO. HDFCO's
rejection ratio is very low if seen,
similar to claim settlement ratio. The number of
claims is also determined by the value of claims, in
which the claim settlement ratio is
calculated that out of the total amount of
claim, how much amount
of claim was settled by the insurance company. There is
also a ratio for this, if we
talk about HDFC Ergo, it is 54.65%.
If we talk about ICICI LBAD, it is 48.10%.
Both are significantly lower.  If we
talk about the value of claims or the value of claims by way of claim settlement ratio, it basically means
that the insurance company is rejecting maximum
claims of high value.
She is
not doing that much to people.  So this deduction is done
if we look at the claim settlement ratio by value.
So based on all these
parameters that we have just discussed here.
Apart from this, we have like 30-40 parameters
which we
use in claims experience to rate the
claims experience of various insurance
companies.  If
we calculate the cumulative rating on this basis, then the
claims experience rating of HDFCO
is 4.85 out of five and that of ICICI LBR
is 4.54 out of five.  There is
not much significant difference between the two.  If you
see, there is a significant difference in customer service and product
between ICICI LBR and HDFC ARO.  There is not much difference in the gaming experience.
If we look at the ratings, both of them are almost the same.
So based on this, the
winner of round three is again HDFC Ergo Optima
Secure.  Let's start round four
which you all have been waiting for.  Basically, let's
compare the premium Optimus Secure with the
Elevate product.  The
test case we always take to compare the premium is
Mr. Kumar who is 30 years old.
His spouse is 30 years old.  They have a
one year old child.  They are deciding in
Mumbai.  If they take a cover out of Rs 10 lakh,
then what is the premium for both of these?
Let's see.  The
premium for this test case in Optima Secure is ₹24.36.  And if
we talk about Elevate, its premium is ₹18,400.
Basically, one
thing to keep in mind about Optima Secure is that it provides 2x cover from Day One.
Right?
As soon as you buy the policy, the policy of Rs 10 lakh
becomes yours of Rs 20 lakh from day one.
So because of this, this thing is
factored in in the premium.  So the ₹24,000
that you are paying extra, the ₹67,000 that
you have to pay extra,
this thing is actually factored in
in Optima Secure.  If we talk about Elevate, then in this
also we discussed about many ads etc.  There
is an add-on to reduce the waiting period.  Another one is the removal of our room
limit, which is an add on.
Apart from this, there are many other add-ons
in this product.
We have not considered all these ads to include in this premium.
So ₹18,400
is the premium of ICICI LBAT's Arrivat without any add ons.
So let's talk about round five.
Final Verdict Let's see what
I actually have to say about both these
products.  Basically, as we
said in the beginning of the video, both are two
of the largest private insurance
companies that have flaship products.
If we talk about these insurance companies,
both are very good.  There is
no such problem in both of them.  If
premium is not a factor for you,
not a big factor, then in my view
HDFC and Optima Secure will be a very
good bet.  If premium
is a bit of a concern for you, i.e. you are
looking for a cheaper plan in the market, then
you can go for ICICI LB's Elevate product.
It has high customization
options.  There are like
around 24 to 25 add-ons available
in ICICI LBD Elevate plan.  You
can make customizations in them as per your requirement.
Talking about HDFC and Optima Secure,
many add-ons are available in them too.  Around six to seven
different types of add-ons are
available.  There is global cover, there is maternity cover.
There is an add-on called Infinite Claim
which is available in both the products.
Also available in HDFC and Secure.  We
also have Elevate in our ICICI LB where
you can claim in one or two lifetimes
without any unlimited cover amount.  So
for this also such types of add ons
are available.  If you talk to me,
ICICI LBAT's Elevate is a little underrated.
If we talk about overall rating.   Let
me quickly take a look and tell you
how we have rated
both these products overall.  If we
talk about Optima Secure, then as per the basic star
rating, we have given 4.94 out of five to
Optima Secure and
4.1 out of five to ICICI Lambdar's Elevate.
Relatively speaking,
ICICI lamb telebet is a little lower rated
compared to the likes of HDFC and Optima Secure.
As I told you earlier, if premium is
not a concern for you, then Optima
Secure would be a good bet for you. In today's
video, we have discussed a lot of parameters. I know as a
customer, you might get
overwhelmed to understand all these parameters.
Therefore, I highly recommend
that you
visit www.org and there you
can book a free consultation call
with our financial experts who will
handhold you from buying the policy to claims.
Even at the time of claim, if
any difficulty or any
problem arises, then these experts of
ours deal directly with the insurance company
and they will
fully assist you in settling your claim.   Will
help you completely.